Student Enrollment
Enrollment and Immunization Requirements
The Cobb County School District (District) shall admit into its schools any individual between the ages of five (5), on or before September 1, and seventeen (17), who resides with an adult, whether a parent or guardian, within the District. All youth who reside in the District who have not attained the age of 21 by September 1 are eligible for enrollment in appropriate education programs, unless they have received a high school diploma or the equivalent. Students that have dropped out of school for one quarter or more are eligible to re-enroll unless they attain the age of 20 by September 1 (See Rule JBC-R).

Si usted no habla inglés y necesita ayuda con el proceso de inscripción, comuníquese con el Centro Internacional de Bienvenida (International Welcome Center) al 678-331-3086 y presione 0.
Note: Non-English speaking families in need of interpretation/translation services may contact the International Welcome Center at 678-331-3086.


To help ensure that the enrollment process for your child goes as smoothly as possible, please read carefully the following guidelines:
What School Will My Child Attend?
You can easily find out what schools serve your home or potential home by using our convenient online Bus Route Finder. Just enter your complete street address to determine the correct elementary, middle and high school. If you have further questions or need more clarification, call the Cobb County School District Transportation Office at (678) 594-8000.

Enrolling Your Child In Cobb Schools?
Register your student online today!What Will The School Need To Enroll My Child?
Georgia law 20-2-690.1, requires any person, whether or not a parent or legal guardian, who has, “control or charge of any child between their sixth and sixteenth birthdays,” to enroll and send the child to a public school, private school, or home study program.

Georgia law requires that kindergarten students be five years old on or before Sept. 1 and first grade students be six years old on or before Sept. 1 to be registered.

The following is a brief summary of documentation needed by any parent/legal guardian (granted through the court system), or non-parent seeking to enroll a student in the Cobb County School District (District).

If the person enrolling the student is not the student’s parent/legal guardian, the school will require the enrolling person to fully complete Form JBC-14 (Kinship Caregiver Affidavit).

There are FIVE (5) main documents required of ALL students prior to being enrolled in the District. To help ensure that the enrollment process for your child goes as smoothly as possible, please refer to the following items:
1. PROOF OF RESIDENCY: Residency as defined by the Georgia Board of Education rule 160-5-1-.28 shall mean the place where the student lives with a parent, guardian, or other person, (refer to Form JBC-14) unless the student is an emancipated minor. The student must be an occupant of a dwelling located within the school system boundaries. Proof of residence in the attendance zone in which the school is located shall be required when a student enrolls in a school and whenever a change of residence occurs, unless the student is homeless. Individuals not legally admitted into the country cannot be denied a free public education.

In order to verify residency within the District, two or more of the following items (no more than one from each category) are required:

home ownership documentation or lease/rental agreement; and
current utility monthly statement
2. CERTIFICATE OF IMMUNIZATION: as required by Georgia Law 20-2-771:

Georgia Form 3231 for all kindergarten and seventh grade students, all students new to Georgia and students coming from any private school must have the form signed by a licensed health-care provider or the county health department. To be enrolled in the District, ALL certificates of immunization must be marked “Complete for Attendance” OR have a future expiration date. Expired certificates will not be accepted for enrollment.

Recommended Immunization Schedule for Children Under 7 Years Old
Recommended Immunization Schedule for Children, 7 to 18 Years Old
State of Georgia Immunization requirements
Kindergarten Immunization Requirements (In English)
Kindergarten Immunization Requirements (En Espanol)
7th Grade Immunization Requirements (In English)
7th Grade Immunization Requirements (En Español)
11th Grade Immunization Requirements - Meningitis Vaccine Parent Letter
Form JGC-4 (Waiver of Immunization Requirements Due to Conflict of Religious Beliefs)
Medical Waivers/Exemptions are a part of Georgia Form 3231 and are reviewed annually.
Back to School 2021 Letter from Cobb & Douglas Public Health
3. CERTIFICATE OF VISION, HEARING, DENTAL, AND NUTRITIONAL SCREENING: as required by Georgia Law 20-2-770 (Georgia Form 3300) for all kindergarten and new first grade students, all students new to Georgia and any child enrolling from a private school dated within 12 months prior to the day of enrollment. However, if a student is enrolling from another Georgia public school, a completed 3300 Form will be accepted by any District school.

Cobb & Douglas Public Health Centers
4. PROOF OF BIRTH DATE: for students enrolling in kindergarten (the age of five on or before Sept. 1) or first grade (the age of six on or before Sept 1), students new to Georgia or coming from a private school. The school will accept evidence in the order set forth below that show the student’s date of birth. Refer to Section B of Rule JBC-R (Admissions/Withdrawals) for additional entrance age requirements.

Birth Certificate
Military ID
Driver’s License
Passport
Adoption Record
A religious record authorized by a religious official
An official school transcript
Affidavit of age
5. SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: According to Georgia Law 20-2-150d; An official copy of the student’s Social Security card/number is required for enrollment. However, no student may be denied enrollment for failing to provide his/her Social Security number. Any parent/legal guardian who objects to the incorporation of the Social Security number into the child’s school records may have the requirement waived by signing a statement objecting to the requirement Form JBC-4 (Statement of Objection to the Use of Social Security Number for Student Identification). However, a Social Security Number will be required by the State for a student applying for the HOPE scholarship.

EXCEPTIONS TO THE ABOVE MENTIONED RULES:

Homeless Children (McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act) Any parent/guardian who may be living in a homeless situation should complete Form JBC(1)-1 (Student Residency Statement) and submit to the school or verbally provide information to a designated school staff member who will submit a referral to the Homeless Education Program for an interview.
International Students During online registration, the enrolling adult must respond to the Home Language Survey (HLS) questions.  If a language other than English is identified on the HLS, students will be required to complete an English language proficiency screening.  Once the student is enrolled, the IWC will contact the family to schedule an appointment for the English language screening and/or transcript evaluation for students in grades 6-12. For elementary students in grades K-5, this process will be completed at the local school.
OTHER DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR ENROLLMENT as required by Georgia Law 20-2-670:

Parental Disclosure
As a prerequisite of enrollment, the parent/guardian must disclose whether the student:
Has ever been adjudicated delinquent of the commission of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act, and if so, the date of such adjudication, the offense committed, the jurisdiction in which such adjudication was made, and the sentence imposed;
Is currently serving a short-term suspension, a long-term suspension, or an expulsion from another school, the reason for such discipline, and the term of such discipline;  
Is currently the subject of a notice of a disciplinary hearing;
Is currently or has ever been the subject of a:
Notice of a report of criminal action;
Notice of chronic disciplinary problem;
Disciplinary and behavioral correction plans; or
Report of the commission of a prohibited act (see O.C.G.A. § 20-2-1184).
Critical Records
In accordance with Georgia Law, a certified copy of the following records from all schools attended during the 24 months preceding enrollment are required (if applicable):
Academic Transcript 
Attendance Records
Student discipline records, including, but not limited to all record of any: 
Disciplinary order of short-term suspension, long-term suspension, or expulsion;
Notice of a report of criminal action;
Notice of chronic disciplinary problem;
Disciplinary and behavioral correction plan; and
Report of the commission of a prohibited act (see O.C.G.A. § 20-2-1184);
Record of the student having ever been adjudicated delinquent of the commission of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act, and if so, the date of such adjudication, the offense committed, the jurisdiction in which such adjudication was made, and the sentence imposed.
An Individualized Education Program (IEP) pursuant to the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act or a plan under Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973. and
Psychological evaluations.
Additional Information:

The School May Also:

request proof of custody or custody documentation; or
suggest that the adult with whom the student lives obtain legal guardianship.
request proof of name verification; and
other information the school deems necessary for proper placement.
Provide the names and phone numbers of persons who may pick up your child if you cannot be reached, and the name and phone number of your child's doctor.

See Rule JBC-R (Admissions/Withdrawals) for additional details on Admissions.

To apply for free and reduce meal benefits, submit an online application here. 

Cobb County Schools Georgia Pre-K Program
The Cobb County School District (CCSD) currently offers Georgia Pre-K at the South Cobb Early Learning Center located at 5891 Dodgen Road, Mableton, GA 30126. Georgia's Pre-K Program is a lottery-funded educational program for Georgia's four-year-old children to prepare them for kindergarten. Student allotment is limited by the number of classes CCSD is granted by the Department of Early Care and Learning. Due to the limited number of student allotments, an enrollment lottery is conducted in March to determine admission for the following school year. CCSD is not responsible for providing an alternative Pre-K experience for a child if they are not awarded admission. Families are always encouraged to explore all options for GA Pre-K. More information about other Pre-K programs not affiliated with CCSD can be found here.

To register or be added to the waitlist for CCSD GA Pre-K (depends on the time of year and if the enrollment lottery has already been conducted):

Students who have been absent from school must submit an excuse note to the Attendance Office upon their return to school. Per Cobb County policy, notes must be turned in the first day that a student returns to school following an absence, but no later than three (3) days after the student’s return to school. Notes will NOT be accepted after the three (3) day limit.

The Georgia State Board of Education policy allows only the following circumstances to be EXCUSED:

Personal illness
Death or serious illness in the immediate family (parents, stepparents, legal guardians, grandparents, and siblings)
Recognized religious holidays observed by the student's faith
Absences mandated by governmental agencies (court orders, etc.)
Conditions which render school attendance impossible or hazardous to the student's health and safety
Service as a page in the Georgia General Assembly
All other reasons for absence are UNEXCUSED.

WHAT INFORMATION NEEDS TO BE INCLUDED IN AN EXCUSE NOTE?

All excuse notes must include the following information:

Student name
Student school ID number
Date(s) of absence(s)
Reason for absence
Contact number where the parent can be reached
Parent signature
Where possible, all excuse notes must be on official letterhead from a doctor, government agency, etc. If this is not possible, parents are permitted to write the excuse note. Please note that students are NOT permitted to write excuse notes, even if the parent signs it. Notes written by students will NOT be accepted.

 Student Suspension 
7/19/18 
RATIONALE/OBJECTIVE:  
The Cobb County School District (District) is dedicated to sound discipline practices in the 
continuing effort to provide students in the District an effective and safe learning environment, to 
promote learning, and to encourage maturity during the school day as well as during all school
related activities. In order to maintain a safe and orderly environment, a student may be subject 
to Short-Term Suspension for the violation of school rules and/or the Rules of the District.  In 
addition, a middle school or high school may exercise the option of In-school Suspension (ISS) in 
lieu of regular suspension in accordance with the District’s Administrative Rules. ISS allows a 
student to attend school and complete academic assignments in a supervised setting. 
RULE: 
I. IN-SCHOOL SUSPENSION 
In-School Suspension (ISS) may be used as an alternative disciplinary action for middle school 
and high school students who exhibit disruptive behavior. 
A. ELIGIBILITY: 
Middle school and high school students may be assigned ISS for offenses that do not have a 
specific minimum or mandatory consequences assigned in the Student Code of Conduct 
(Administrative Rule JCDA-R). 
B. GUIDELINES: 
1. ISS students will receive appropriate academic assignments that are aligned with current 
classroom instruction. These assignments will be monitored for completion by ISS 
designees. Credit will be given for work completed in ISS. 
2. The parent/guardian will be provided written or verbal notification of a student’s 
assignment to ISS. 
3. If the parent/guardian declines or objects to a student’s ISS placement, other disciplinary 
consequences, including out-of-school suspension, may be assigned in accordance with the 
appropriate Student Code of Conduct. 
4. ISS is designed to isolate the students from the rest of the student body. A separate space 
for the housing of in-school suspension students (cubicles if possible) with access to the 
lunchroom and restrooms shall be provided. Lunch shall be brought to the isolated areas 
or served in the cafeteria at a time other than the regular lunch periods. 
5. ISS students shall be supervised and made aware of the rules they are expected to follow 
while in ISS. Students who fail to follow these rules will be disciplined according to the 
appropriate Student Code of Conduct. 
6. The ISS Program will have no effect on the student's transportation. 
7. If a student serves any part of the day in ISS, the student is ineligible to participate in 
extracurricular activities on the day assigned to ISS. If the local school administration 
closes ISS during part of a student's assignment (example: course registration of 
students), the student can participate in extracurricular activities for that particular day. 
High school students enrolled in cooperative programs and assigned to ISS can report to 
their workstation in the business community after the school day has ended. Students 
completing their ISS contract on a Friday may participate in extracurricular activities on 
Saturday. 
8. No student shall be placed in the ISS Program for more than thirty (30) school days per 
school year. 
Page 1 of 3  
9. A student's maximum assignment shall be five (5) consecutive days per incident. 
10. Each school is required to maintain documentation of its ISS program through the Student 
Information System. 
11. Refusal to attend an assigned In-School Suspension or removal from the In-School 
Suspension program resulting in an out-of-school suspension will result in the loss of the 
opportunity to make up work as detailed in Part II below. 
II. SHORT-TERM SUSPENSION 
A. DEFINITION: 
The suspension of a student from school is considered to be a Short-Term Suspension if the 
suspension is not more than ten (10) consecutive school days. See Administrative Rule JCEB
R (Student Hearing Procedure) for out-of-school suspensions of more than 10 school days. 
B. PROCEDURES: 
The Principal or designee may suspend students from school for a period of not more than ten 
(10) consecutive school days. 
1. Prior to Suspension: 
The Principal or designee shall afford the student his/her due process by following the 
procedures listed below: 
a. The student shall be given oral or written notice of the charges against him; 
b. If the student denies the charges, he/she shall be given: 
(1) An explanation of the evidence the school authorities have; and 
(2) An opportunity to present his/her side of the story. 
2. If a student poses a continuing danger to persons or property or an ongoing threat of 
disrupting the academic process, he/she may need to be removed immediately from 
school premises without being afforded the notice and opportunity to respond as described 
above. In such cases, the notice and opportunity to respond shall be provided: 
a. As soon as possible; and 
b. Prior to the administration’s finalization of the student’s suspension recommendation. 
3. The student's parent/guardian shall be notified of the suspension as soon as possible. This 
notification should be confirmed in writing no later than the day after the suspension 
begins. This notification shall contain the charges and the number of days and dates of the 
suspension. The written notification shall be delivered to the student's parent/guardian 
either in person or by first class mail to the last known address of the parent/guardian. If 
notification is delivered in person, a written confirmation of delivery shall be obtained. 
5. If less than the number of suspended days remain in the complete grading period, the 
suspension will continue into the next regular school year or complete grading period. 
6. Even though there are no appeal rights guaranteed by law for students on short-term 
suspension, parent/guardian may call the Principal to discuss their child's discipline. 
Following the decision of the Principal, the student's parent/guardian may contact the 
Office of Student Support to confirm the school’s interpretation of the Code of Conduct. 
C. ACTIVITIES WHILE UNDER SHORT-TERM SUSPENSION: 
1. Participation: 
a. Students under Short-Term Suspension shall not participate in or attend school 
activities on or off campus or be present on any other Cobb County school campus. 
b. When short-term suspension carries over the summer months, permission to 
participate in school-sponsored summer activities is at the discretion of the Principal 
unless the activity is a Georgia High School Association (GHSA) sanctioned event in 
which case GHSA by-laws apply. Students violating this prohibition are subject to 
additional penalties. 
c. During the time of the suspension, if school is not in session due to inclement weather 
or other reasons, the suspension time will be extended to cover any days missed. 
2. Class Work Credit: 
Students under a short-term suspension shall be allowed to receive credit for class work 
missed during the time of suspension, 
Page 2 of 3  
3. Assignments: 
a. It will be the responsibility of the parent/guardian to pick up the work from the school; 
It is the student’s responsibility to complete the work during the suspension and return 
it to the teachers on the first day the student returns to school following a suspension. 
b. If a parent/guardian fails to pick up work during a suspension that has been prepared 
by the student’s teacher(s), the student may forfeit his/her right to make–up work 
under this Rule during additional suspensions during the school year. 
4. Final Examinations/Long-Term Assignments: 
a. A student may take final examinations and turn in long-term assignments assigned 
before the suspension or expulsion that are due during the suspension or expulsion. 
b. Long-term assignments must be turned in the day the student returns from the 
suspension or expulsion. 
c. The Principal shall provide for the student’s taking of final examinations. The 
examinations will occur either at the given time or through some special arrangement 
at the discretion of the Principal or designee. 
D. PRESCHOOL THROUGH THIRD GRADE: 
Prior to being suspended or expelled from school for more than five consecutive or cumulative 
days during a school year, preschool through third-grade students must first receive a multi
tiered system of supports such as response to intervention (RtI) pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 20-2
742.  This provision does not apply to students in possession of a weapon, illegal drugs, or 
other dangerous instrument or when such student’s behavior endangers the physical safety of 
other students or school personnel. 
E. SPECIAL EDUCATION STUDENTS: 
In addition to the requirements of Section D, above, prior to assigning any student in 
preschool through third grade to out-of-school suspension for more than five consecutive or 
cumulative days during a school year, if such student has an Individualized Education Plan 
(IEP) or a plan under Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act, the school shall also 
convene an IEP or Section 504 meeting to review appropriate supports being provided as part 
of such IEP or Section 504 plan.

